Feeling all of our feelings is something
that's really hard for a lot of us these
days. And in this coaching session, I'm
working with somebody who's become very
dissociative. They feel isolated and
very alone. So, if you're feeling that
way, this would be a great video for you
to watch so you can discover what's
actually going on beneath that.
Um, I got a lot. Um, I don't even know
which one to choose, but um, the one
that the rest hinges on.
The one that's scariest to ask, the one
that's making you almost cry right
now. I mean, h how do I how do I love
myself
and express my emotions properly or
learn
to express my emotions? I What do you
mean properly?
Um, I don't know. I'm a very emotional
guy, as you can see, but I've always
been told and taught to not let my
emotions uh shine through, and it's a
bad thing. And,
um, you know, I should just let my
emotions roll off my sleeve and not pay
attention to them. Um, and I did that
for so long, but it's it's not really
who I am. Cool. Yeah. So my answer to
your question is how do you do it
properly is to not listen to any of that
[__]
I'm trying. I'm trying.
Well, it doesn't sound like you need to
try. What makes you try?
Just trying to It's happening right now.
The the trying is trying to stop it from
happening right now. I mean, that's what
I'm looking at.
Yeah. Um I mean, I I I live a lot of my
life in my head.
Um, you know, I'm a very introverted
person and I've kind of been isolated
through a lot of different aspects of my
life, which, you know, I'm learning.
You're isolated right now, bro.
Yeah.
You're isolating the sadness that's
happening right now. Like in this
moment, you're
isolating your sadness.
What just happened? What the [__] was
that? She's Did you Did you get that?
Yeah. What was that?
Acceptance. Understanding. Yeah.
Can you do me a favor? Is your is your
is your like uh is your backdrop like is
it like horribly ugly or something? Can
we turn off because I'm I'm getting like
effects and so I don't I don't have a
clear view of
you. Yeah. Let
me I don't even know how to take that
off to be honest.
There you go. Oh, [__] Looks great.
It's a childish room, you know. I'm
living with my parents again.
Yeah. So, what's the what's the question
now?
How do
I how do I accept myself and and
reconnect with my my inner
child, you know, and and not listen to
all the people throughout my life who
have told me, you know, I'm worthless or
this or that, you know? That's great.
Um, I want you to really try to
disconnect with
yourself in this moment. I want you to
really, really, really like do your best
disconnection. And I want you to 10x
that. Go even more disconnection.
That's some good [__] right
there. Cool. And I'm gonna talk, but you
stay disconnected. Don't don't change
it. Stay in that trans kind of
space.
Awesome.
And in a minute, I'm going to ask you to
let it go to stop all the tension that
you have to use to do this. Don't do it
yet. There's a lot of tension in your
system to be able to do this. I'm gonna
ask you to let it go. And then without
thinking about a word for it, I'm gonna
ask you to go in the exact opposite
direction of where you are now. So
you're on one end of a spectrum. You're
going to let it go. You're going to hit
the middle and then you're going to go
all the way to the other end with zero
effort. Because if you're in effort,
then you're not going in the opposite
direction.
So stay in that totally I
[Music]
am. Okay. Now let it
go and then go in the the total opposite
direction. Don't think just let your
body do the
work. It's funny. You're highly
emotional, but your system is so subtle.
Tell me what
happened. Kind of uh just kind of looked
at myself in a in a third person
perspective. Yeah. um as I dissociated
and you know like you said released that
effort and it just kind
of felt like a slingshot back into
my my point of view my my personal view.
Yeah. Yeah. And is that also how much of
it was you were leaving your body and
then back into your
body? It might not be that.
How accurate of a description is that?
I'd say it's pretty accurate. It It felt
like my uh
Yeah. everything kind of came centered.
Yeah. Do you know about the stonefaced
baby experiments?
No. So, if you have this baby and the
baby is
crying
and you attune to it, the baby moves its
emotion. And it gets back to embodied
connection. And if you don't attune to
it, if you just respond with a stone
face, eventually the baby also has a
stone face. You can look it up. It's the
stone. It's disturbing as [__] to
see. But somehow that's something like
that happened to you.
I've
been very good at masking my emotions.
Yeah.
Yeah. So your question was how do I
accept
myself? What's the self you want to
accept given that
experience? It's so hard to answer cuz I
feel like I I don't know who I am truly
anymore. Um you're right. Hold on. You
don't you can't
know intellectually. You cannot know who
you are. You said you spend a lot of
time in your head. And what I'm saying
is your head can't know who you
are. What happens when you just allow
that? Let's say I'm not full of [__] for
a minute and just allow that in like, oh
yeah, I can't actually intellectually
know who I am. What happens in your
system?
kind of scared and anxious. How did you
know that?
Just my
body. So, your body knows who you are,
knows where you are, knows what what's
going on with
you. So,
just trying to listen to my body more.
trying.
We'll
just try neglected. Try not to listen to
your
body right
now. There you go again. I'm not going
to let you go all the way there, but
that right
boom. And that's the
effort. Not listening to your body is
the dissociation which is all the
effort.
just scary. What was it? What was it
about? What were your parents scared
of? What was the thing that they were
scared
of that had them teach you how to
dissociate?
Um, God, I don't know. Um, losing me.
um me not
being it's not you. It's not about you.
What were they scared of that made them
the kind of people who didn't weren't
able to attune
to your sadness or your anger or your
needs, your
body? I mean, my dad is
a an emotionally scarred man. He's had a
hell of a past and I don't think he
knows how to express his emotions
properly. Yeah. And uh my mom is overly
emotional and you know the loss of my
grandmother really threw her
for quite a roller coaster of a few
years. Great.
Perfect. So this all of their activity
wasn't about you.
It it wasn't personal.
I think deep down I know that.
Yeah. Let the rest of your body catch
up. Something in your body knows it. Now
we're just letting all the rest of the
body catch up. Let it like literally
seep into every cell of your body for a
moment. What's the truth of who you
are now that it's updated for a minute?
I'm I'm a big ball of
love and
and
wonder and
uh just wanting and
learning. Yeah.
Just feels so unnatural
to feel things this way.
It feels so natural, you said, or
unnatural. Unnatural, but it feels good.
Yeah. Yeah, it is. Yeah. Put your hands
together like this for a second and then
go like
that. And now do it the opposite way.
No different, but one definitely feels
different, right?
Yeah, that's what's
happening. So, just one more step. I
just I see one more thing that we may be
able to to look at which is
um this is going to be a little strange
but
uh that place where you disassociate
where you see yourself from the
outside I want you to go there but with
no
effort so stay in your
body I don't I don't no you're not
dissociating you're just seeing yourself
from the outside so it's seeing yourself
from the outside without the
dissociation.
Okay. Yeah. What do you see?
You know, strong,
skillful,
lovable, interesting guy. Yeah.
But I also see a lot of anger and
resentment
and fear. Yeah.
But what I notice is you see it in a
non-personal
way. All the judgment that you usually
hold for all that [__] and all the
talking why aren't you and all that's
gone from that outside perspective. You
can see it as is, not as a commentary.
Like you're getting the news as a blurb
instead of like MSNBC or Fox News and
all the [__] commentary, right?
You're just getting like, oh, this is
the state of affairs. Yeah.
Yeah, we're not we're not done. We're
almost done. Yeah. So, there's a way of
looking at yourself with all the
personal. There's a way of looking at
yourself in the
non-personal. And without going into
dissociation, see what it's like to just
live in the non-personal for a minute.
You don't have to be outside of
yourself. It's just non-personal. And
even like looking at everybody
here, looking at
yourself, don't cut off. You're cut
cutting a little bit off of your core.
Like don't don't you're using a little
bit of the dissociation in your core.
See what it's like to just let the core
be completely open while you do this.
Yeah. What is that all about? But
it's refreshing.
Yeah.
Um, I I know I hold on to a lot of
trauma from when I was younger of just
uh uh judgment and and bullying and a
lot of that.
And it's not who I am anymore, but it's
just so ingrained in much of my life
that it's hard
to remember that people don't see me
that way anymore and I'm a different
person, but it's refreshing
to open my body up to that perspective.
Yeah. Yeah. The reason I'm saying this
is because all that disassociation has
an amazing gift in it if you keep your
body in the
game. Dissociation without the body is
one thing. Dissociation or the
non-personalness that dissociation
that's the protection is the
non-personalness. But if you do it with
the body in the
game, it's
refreshing. It's quite sweet.
It is. Yeah.
It's like a like a wave of warm honey
almost. Yeah, that's it.
But why do
I why do I feel so scared of it and and
resistant like I because when you were a
kid and you felt it, you got the stone
face.
you got rejected because of it. And so
you're just it's takes like time and
patience. Like imagine if you had like a
little
kid who had had that trauma and you're
teaching it that it's
safe. Do you do it by saying you should
be different?
No, you just sit in the presence of it
and it's going to be scared and it's
going to release that fear and you're
going to sit in the presence of that
too from that non-personal
space. So, as I disassociate with my
body in in mind and in tune like I need
to sit with all those emotions that
arise. You don't need to. You get
to my daughter. She had this
cat. It was a mangy ass living in the
compost pile
cat. And it became a part of the
family. She didn't pick it up and say,
"I love you and squeeze you and hug you
so much and why aren't you different?"
And D. She spent three
weeks getting the cat to heat eat out of
her hand.
You get
to you get to be with that like amazing
cat.
Thank you. You're welcome. Thank